---
layout: post
title: "Week 3 Parameter estimation"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## GDELT Column data aggregation and transformation

We are separating the treatment of event metadata and event impact to generate a map of metadata and and real number quantifying the impact of the event.

### Metadata aggregation

We are aggregating the data rows first by country and then by ActorType1Code and deriving a time series out of them. Each Type will be a regressor and each country will be a vector of types to be fed into VAR. The countries we choose will be the country pair of the exchange rate (for now) and we are assigning different codes to international organizations (UN, EU, NATO etc) to that they have an entity representation.

#### Sample results

USA_20050101 (Country and date)

|Column                | Positive impact  | Negative impact |
|:---------------------|:-----------------|:----------------|
|BUS (business)        | +50              |-20              |    
|GOV (government)      | +10              |-15              |
|...                   |                  |                 |

...

GBR_20050101 (Country and date)

|Column                | Positive impact  | Negative impact |
|:---------------------|:-----------------|:----------------|
|BUS (business)        | +10              |-20              |    
|GOV (government)      | +40              |-15              |
|...                   |                  |                 |

THe numbers in the impact columns represent the relative impact generated by the event according to our impact heuristic function.


### Impact heuristic function

We try out a few heuristic functions to map categorical variables onto the real line. The general idea is that we are attenuating the intrinsic type of the event by the number of mentions (articles sources etc.) and we hope that it is immediately verifiable.

#### first heuristic

NumArticles $$\times$$ GoldSteinScale

Preliminaries show no linear relationship between regressors and predictors.

#### second heuristic

NumArticles $$\times$$ AvgTone

#### third heuristic

NumArticles $$\times$$ QuadClass

### SVM 


